README.md, before:

![SwiftSyft-logo](openmined_assets/openmined_logo.png)
![CI](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/openmined/swiftsyft/SwiftSyft%20CI)
[![Coverage](https://codecov.io/gh/OpenMined/SwiftSyft/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/OpenMined/SwiftSyft)
![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/openmined/swiftsyft)
![Contributors](https://img.shields.io/opencollective/all/openmined)
![OpenCollective](https://img.shields.io/opencollective/all/openmined)
<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-BADGE:START - Do not remove or modify this section -->
[![All Contributors](https://img.shields.io/badge/all_contributors-2-orange.svg?style=flat-square)](#contributors-)
<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-BADGE:END -->

# SwiftSyft

SwiftSyft makes it easy for you to **train and inference PySyft models on iOS devices**. This allows you to utilize training data located directly on the device itself, bypassing the need to send a user's data to a central server. This is known as [federated learning](https://ai.googleblog.com/2017/04/federated-learning-collaborative.html).

- :gear: **Training and inference** of any PySyft model written in PyTorch or TensorFlow
- :bust_in_silhouette: Allows all data to stay on the user's device
- :back: Support for delegation to background task scheduler
- :key: Support for **JWT authentication** to protect models from Sybil attacks
- :+1: Host of **inbuilt best practices** to prevent apps from over using device resources. 
    - :electric_plug: **Charge detection** to allow background training only when device is connected to charger
    - :zzz: **Sleep and wake detection** so that the app does not occupy resource when user starts using the device
    - :money_with_wings: **Wifi and metered network detection** to ensure the model updates do not use all the available data quota 
    - :no_bell: All of these smart defaults are easily are **overridable**
- :mortar_board: Support for both reactive and callback patterns so you have your freedom of choice (_in progress_)
- :lock: Support for **secure multi-party computation** and **secure aggregation** protocols using **peer-to-peer WebRTC** connections (_in progress_).

There are a variety of additional privacy-preserving protections that may be applied, including [differential privacy](https://towardsdatascience.com/understanding-differential-privacy-85ce191e198a), [muliti-party computation](https://www.inpher.io/technology/what-is-secure-multiparty-computation), and [secure aggregation](https://research.google/pubs/pub45808/).

[OpenMined](https://openmined.org) set out to build the **world's first open-source ecosystem for federated learning on web and mobile**. SwiftSyft is a part of this ecosystem, responsible for bringing secure federated learning to iOS devices. You may also train models on Android devices using [KotlinSyft](https://github.com/OpenMined/KotlinSyft) or in web browsers using [syft.js](https://github.com/OpenMined/syft.js).

If you want to know how scalable federated systems are built, [Towards Federated Learning at Scale](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1902.01046.pdf) is a fantastic introduction!

## Installation
We have not currently made our initial release. SwiftSyft would soon be available on Cocoapods.

## Quick Start
As a developer, there are few steps to building your own secure federated learning system upon the OpenMined infrastructure:

1. :robot: Generate your secure ML model using [PySyft](https://github.com/OpenMined/PySyft). By design, PySyft is built upon PyTorch and TensorFlow so you **don't need to learn a new ML framework**. You will also need to write a training plan (training code the worker runs) and an averaging plan (code that PyGrid runs to average the model diff).
2. :earth_americas: Host your model and plans on [PyGrid](https://github.com/OpenMined/PyGrid) which will deal with all the federated learning components of your pipeline. You will need to set up a PyGrid server somewhere, please see their installation instructions on how to do this.
3. :tada: Start training on the device!

**:notebook: The entire workflow and process is described in greater detail in our [project roadmap](https://github.com/OpenMined/Roadmap/blob/master/web_and_mobile_team/projects/federated_learning.md).**

You can use SwiftSyft as a front-end or as a background service. The following is a quick start example usage:

```swift

// This is a demonstration of how to use SwiftSyft with PyGrid to train a plan on local data on an iOS device

// Create a client with a PyGrid server URL
if let syftClient = SyftClient(url: URL(string: "ws://127.0.0.1:5000")!) {

  // Store the client as a property so it doesn't get deallocated during training.
  self.syftClient = syftClient

  // Create a new federated learning job with the model name and version
  self.syftJob = syftClient.newJob(modelName: "mnist", version: "1.0.0")

  // This function is called when SwiftSyft has downloaded the plans and model parameters from PyGrid
  // You are ready to train your model on your data
  // plan - Use this to generate diffs using our training data
  // clientConfig - contains the configuration for the training cycle (batchSize, learning rate) and  
  // metadata for the model (name, version)
  // modelReport - Used as a completion block and reports the diffs to PyGrid.
  self.syftJob?.onReady(execute: { plan, clientConfig, modelReport in

    do {

        // This returns a lazily evaluated sequence for each MNIST image and the corresponding label
        // It divides the training data and the label by batches
        let (mnistData, labels) = try MNISTLoader.load(setType: .train, batchSize: clientConfig.batchSize)

        // Iterate through each batch of MNIST data and label
        for case let (batchData, labels) in zip(mnistData, labels) {

            // We need to create an autorelease pool to release the training data from memory after each loop
            try autoreleasepool {

                // Preprocess MNIST data by flattening all of the MNIST batch data as a single array
                let flattenedBatch = MNISTLoader.flattenMNISTData(batchData)
                // Preprocess the label ( 0 to 9 ) by creating one-hot features and then flattening the entire thing
                let oneHotLabels = MNISTLoader.oneHotMNISTLabels(labels: labels).compactMap { Float($0)}

                // Since we don't have native tensor wrappers in Swift yet, we use 
                // `TrainingData` and `ValidationData` classes to store the data and shape.
                let trainingData = try TrainingData(data: flattenedBatch, shape: [clientConfig.batchSize, 784])
                let validationData = try ValidationData(data: oneHotLabels, shape: [clientConfig.batchSize, 10])

                // Execute the plan with the training data and validation data. `plan.execute()` 
                // returns the loss and you can use it if you want to (plan.execute()
                // has the @discardableResult attribute) 
                let loss = plan.execute(trainingData: trainingData, 
                                      validationData: validationData, 
                                        clientConfig: clientConfig)

            }

        }

        // Generate diff data and report the final diffs as 
        let diffStateData = try plan.generateDiffData()
        modelReport(diffStateData)

    } catch let error {
        // Handle any error from the training cycle
        debugPrint(error.localizedDescription)
    }

  })

  // This is the error handler for any job exeuction errors like connecting to PyGrid 
  self.syftJob?.onError(execute: { error in
    print(error)
  })

  // Start the job. You can set that the job should only execute if the device is being charge and there is 
  // a WiFi connection. These options are on by default if you don't specify them.
  self.syftJob?.start(chargeDetection: true, wifiDetection: true)
}
```

### Running in the background

A mini tutorial on how to run `SwiftSyft` on iOS using the background task scheduler can be found [here](Background-Example.md)

### Running the Demo App
The demo app fetches the plans, protocols and model weights from PyGrid server hosted locally. The plans are then deserialized and executed using libtorch.
<p align="center">
<img src="openmined_assets/swiftsyft_demo.gif" height="354">
</p>

Follow these steps to setup an environment to run the demo app:

- Clone the repo [PyGrid](https://github.com/OpenMined/PyGrid) and change directory to it
```bash
git clone https://github.com/OpenMined/PyGrid
cd PyGrid
```
- Install [docker](https://github.com/OpenMined/PyGrid/#getting-started)
- Install docker-compose.
- Execute `docker-compose` in the command line to start pygrid server.
```bash
docker-compose up
```

- Install [PySyft](https://github.com/OpenMined/PySyft) `v0.2.5` in the virtual environment.
```bash
virtualenv -p python3 venv
source venv/bin/activate
pip install syft==0.2.5, jupyter==1.0.0, notebook==5.7.8
```

- Host Jupyter Notebook 
```bash
jupyter notebook
```
- Open a browser and navigate to [localhost:8888](http://localhost:8888/). You should be able to see the pysyft notebook console.
- In the Jupyter Notebook, navigate to `examples/experimental/FL Training Plan`
- Run the notebooks `Create Plan`. It should save three files in the `FL Training Plan` folder
- Run the notebook `Host Plan`. Now PyGrid is setup and the model is hosted over it.

```
syft.base_url="<IP_address_from_step_16>:5000"
```

- Set-up demo project using Cocoapods
- Install [Cocoapods](https://cocoapods.org/) 
```bash
gem install cocoapods
```
- Install the dependencies of the project.
```bash
pod install # On the root directory of this project
```
- Open the file `SwiftSyft.xcworkspace` in Xcode.
- Run the `SwiftSyft` project. It automatically uses `127.0.0.1:5000` as the PyGrid URL.

## Contributing

### Set-up

You can work on the project by running `pod install` in the root directory. Then open the file `SwiftSyft.xcworkspace` in Xcode. When the project is open on Xcode, you can work on the `SwiftSyft` pod itself in `Pods/Development Pods/SwiftSyft/Classes/*`

### Workflow

1. Star, for and clone the repo
2. Open the project in Xcode
3. Check out current issues and Github. For newcomers, check out issues labeled `Good first issue`
4. Do your work
5. Push your fork
6. Submit a PR to OpenMined/SwiftSyft

Read the [contribution guide](https://github.com/OpenMined/.github/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) as a good starting place. Additionally, we welcome you to the [slack](http://slack.openmined.org/) for queries related to the library and contribution in general. The Slack channel `#lib_swift_syft` is specific to SwiftSyft development, the Slack channel `#lib_syft_mobile` is meant for both Android and iOS teams. See you there! 

## License
[Apache License 2.0](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/apache-2.0/)

## Contributors ✨

Thanks goes to these wonderful people ([emoji key](https://allcontributors.org/docs/en/emoji-key)):

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:START - Do not remove or modify this section -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable -->
<table>
  <tr>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://github.com/mjjimenez"><img src="https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/u/4151269?v=4" width="100px;" alt=""/><br /><sub><b>Mark Jimenez</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/OpenMined/SwiftSyft/commits?author=mjjimenez" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="https://github.com/OpenMined/SwiftSyft/commits?author=mjjimenez" title="Documentation">📖</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://github.com/mamuleanu"><img src="https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/10297451?v=4" width="100px;" alt=""/><br /><sub><b>Madalin Mamuleanu</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/OpenMined/SwiftSyft/commits?author=mamuleanu" title="Code">💻</a></td>
  </tr>
</table>

<!-- markdownlint-enable -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->
<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:END -->

This project follows the [all-contributors](https://github.com/all-contributors/all-contributors) specification. Contributions of any kind welcome!

Commit message:

Added support section with slack channels

README.md, after:

![SwiftSyft-logo](openmined_assets/openmined_logo.png)
![CI](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/openmined/swiftsyft/SwiftSyft%20CI)
[![Coverage](https://codecov.io/gh/OpenMined/SwiftSyft/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/OpenMined/SwiftSyft)
![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/openmined/swiftsyft)
![Contributors](https://img.shields.io/opencollective/all/openmined)
![OpenCollective](https://img.shields.io/opencollective/all/openmined)
<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-BADGE:START - Do not remove or modify this section -->
[![All Contributors](https://img.shields.io/badge/all_contributors-2-orange.svg?style=flat-square)](#contributors-)
<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-BADGE:END -->

# SwiftSyft

SwiftSyft makes it easy for you to **train and inference PySyft models on iOS devices**. This allows you to utilize training data located directly on the device itself, bypassing the need to send a user's data to a central server. This is known as [federated learning](https://ai.googleblog.com/2017/04/federated-learning-collaborative.html).

- :gear: **Training and inference** of any PySyft model written in PyTorch or TensorFlow
- :bust_in_silhouette: Allows all data to stay on the user's device
- :back: Support for delegation to background task scheduler
- :key: Support for **JWT authentication** to protect models from Sybil attacks
- :+1: Host of **inbuilt best practices** to prevent apps from over using device resources. 
    - :electric_plug: **Charge detection** to allow background training only when device is connected to charger
    - :zzz: **Sleep and wake detection** so that the app does not occupy resource when user starts using the device
    - :money_with_wings: **Wifi and metered network detection** to ensure the model updates do not use all the available data quota 
    - :no_bell: All of these smart defaults are easily are **overridable**
- :mortar_board: Support for both reactive and callback patterns so you have your freedom of choice (_in progress_)
- :lock: Support for **secure multi-party computation** and **secure aggregation** protocols using **peer-to-peer WebRTC** connections (_in progress_).

There are a variety of additional privacy-preserving protections that may be applied, including [differential privacy](https://towardsdatascience.com/understanding-differential-privacy-85ce191e198a), [muliti-party computation](https://www.inpher.io/technology/what-is-secure-multiparty-computation), and [secure aggregation](https://research.google/pubs/pub45808/).

[OpenMined](https://openmined.org) set out to build the **world's first open-source ecosystem for federated learning on web and mobile**. SwiftSyft is a part of this ecosystem, responsible for bringing secure federated learning to iOS devices. You may also train models on Android devices using [KotlinSyft](https://github.com/OpenMined/KotlinSyft) or in web browsers using [syft.js](https://github.com/OpenMined/syft.js).

If you want to know how scalable federated systems are built, [Towards Federated Learning at Scale](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1902.01046.pdf) is a fantastic introduction!

## Installation
We have not currently made our initial release. SwiftSyft would soon be available on Cocoapods.

## Quick Start
As a developer, there are few steps to building your own secure federated learning system upon the OpenMined infrastructure:

1. :robot: Generate your secure ML model using [PySyft](https://github.com/OpenMined/PySyft). By design, PySyft is built upon PyTorch and TensorFlow so you **don't need to learn a new ML framework**. You will also need to write a training plan (training code the worker runs) and an averaging plan (code that PyGrid runs to average the model diff).
2. :earth_americas: Host your model and plans on [PyGrid](https://github.com/OpenMined/PyGrid) which will deal with all the federated learning components of your pipeline. You will need to set up a PyGrid server somewhere, please see their installation instructions on how to do this.
3. :tada: Start training on the device!

**:notebook: The entire workflow and process is described in greater detail in our [project roadmap](https://github.com/OpenMined/Roadmap/blob/master/web_and_mobile_team/projects/federated_learning.md).**

You can use SwiftSyft as a front-end or as a background service. The following is a quick start example usage:

```swift

// This is a demonstration of how to use SwiftSyft with PyGrid to train a plan on local data on an iOS device

// Create a client with a PyGrid server URL
if let syftClient = SyftClient(url: URL(string: "ws://127.0.0.1:5000")!) {

  // Store the client as a property so it doesn't get deallocated during training.
  self.syftClient = syftClient

  // Create a new federated learning job with the model name and version
  self.syftJob = syftClient.newJob(modelName: "mnist", version: "1.0.0")

  // This function is called when SwiftSyft has downloaded the plans and model parameters from PyGrid
  // You are ready to train your model on your data
  // plan - Use this to generate diffs using our training data
  // clientConfig - contains the configuration for the training cycle (batchSize, learning rate) and  
  // metadata for the model (name, version)
  // modelReport - Used as a completion block and reports the diffs to PyGrid.
  self.syftJob?.onReady(execute: { plan, clientConfig, modelReport in

    do {

        // This returns a lazily evaluated sequence for each MNIST image and the corresponding label
        // It divides the training data and the label by batches
        let (mnistData, labels) = try MNISTLoader.load(setType: .train, batchSize: clientConfig.batchSize)

        // Iterate through each batch of MNIST data and label
        for case let (batchData, labels) in zip(mnistData, labels) {

            // We need to create an autorelease pool to release the training data from memory after each loop
            try autoreleasepool {

                // Preprocess MNIST data by flattening all of the MNIST batch data as a single array
                let flattenedBatch = MNISTLoader.flattenMNISTData(batchData)
                // Preprocess the label ( 0 to 9 ) by creating one-hot features and then flattening the entire thing
                let oneHotLabels = MNISTLoader.oneHotMNISTLabels(labels: labels).compactMap { Float($0)}

                // Since we don't have native tensor wrappers in Swift yet, we use 
                // `TrainingData` and `ValidationData` classes to store the data and shape.
                let trainingData = try TrainingData(data: flattenedBatch, shape: [clientConfig.batchSize, 784])
                let validationData = try ValidationData(data: oneHotLabels, shape: [clientConfig.batchSize, 10])

                // Execute the plan with the training data and validation data. `plan.execute()` 
                // returns the loss and you can use it if you want to (plan.execute()
                // has the @discardableResult attribute) 
                let loss = plan.execute(trainingData: trainingData, 
                                      validationData: validationData, 
                                        clientConfig: clientConfig)

            }

        }

        // Generate diff data and report the final diffs as 
        let diffStateData = try plan.generateDiffData()
        modelReport(diffStateData)

    } catch let error {
        // Handle any error from the training cycle
        debugPrint(error.localizedDescription)
    }

  })

  // This is the error handler for any job exeuction errors like connecting to PyGrid 
  self.syftJob?.onError(execute: { error in
    print(error)
  })

  // Start the job. You can set that the job should only execute if the device is being charge and there is 
  // a WiFi connection. These options are on by default if you don't specify them.
  self.syftJob?.start(chargeDetection: true, wifiDetection: true)
}
```

### Running in the background

A mini tutorial on how to run `SwiftSyft` on iOS using the background task scheduler can be found [here](Background-Example.md)

### Running the Demo App
The demo app fetches the plans, protocols and model weights from PyGrid server hosted locally. The plans are then deserialized and executed using libtorch.
<p align="center">
<img src="openmined_assets/swiftsyft_demo.gif" height="354">
</p>

Follow these steps to setup an environment to run the demo app:

- Clone the repo [PyGrid](https://github.com/OpenMined/PyGrid) and change directory to it
```bash
git clone https://github.com/OpenMined/PyGrid
cd PyGrid
```
- Install [docker](https://github.com/OpenMined/PyGrid/#getting-started)
- Install docker-compose.
- Execute `docker-compose` in the command line to start pygrid server.
```bash
docker-compose up
```

- Install [PySyft](https://github.com/OpenMined/PySyft) `v0.2.5` in the virtual environment.
```bash
virtualenv -p python3 venv
source venv/bin/activate
pip install syft==0.2.5, jupyter==1.0.0, notebook==5.7.8
```

- Host Jupyter Notebook 
```bash
jupyter notebook
```
- Open a browser and navigate to [localhost:8888](http://localhost:8888/). You should be able to see the pysyft notebook console.
- In the Jupyter Notebook, navigate to `examples/experimental/FL Training Plan`
- Run the notebooks `Create Plan`. It should save three files in the `FL Training Plan` folder
- Run the notebook `Host Plan`. Now PyGrid is setup and the model is hosted over it.

```
syft.base_url="<IP_address_from_step_16>:5000"
```

- Set-up demo project using Cocoapods
- Install [Cocoapods](https://cocoapods.org/) 
```bash
gem install cocoapods
```
- Install the dependencies of the project.
```bash
pod install # On the root directory of this project
```
- Open the file `SwiftSyft.xcworkspace` in Xcode.
- Run the `SwiftSyft` project. It automatically uses `127.0.0.1:5000` as the PyGrid URL.

## Contributing

### Set-up

You can work on the project by running `pod install` in the root directory. Then open the file `SwiftSyft.xcworkspace` in Xcode. When the project is open on Xcode, you can work on the `SwiftSyft` pod itself in `Pods/Development Pods/SwiftSyft/Classes/*`

### Workflow

1. Star, for and clone the repo
2. Open the project in Xcode
3. Check out current issues and Github. For newcomers, check out issues labeled `Good first issue`
4. Do your work
5. Push your fork
6. Submit a PR to OpenMined/SwiftSyft

Read the [contribution guide](https://github.com/OpenMined/.github/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) as a good starting place. 

### Support

For support in using this library, please join the **#lib_swift_syft** Slack channel. If you'd like to follow along with any code changes to the library, please join **#code_swiftsyft** Slack channel. [Click here to join our Slack Community!](https://slack.openmined.org)

## License
[Apache License 2.0](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/apache-2.0/)

## Contributors ✨

Thanks goes to these wonderful people ([emoji key](https://allcontributors.org/docs/en/emoji-key)):

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:START - Do not remove or modify this section -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable -->
<table>
  <tr>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://github.com/mjjimenez"><img src="https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/u/4151269?v=4" width="100px;" alt=""/><br /><sub><b>Mark Jimenez</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/OpenMined/SwiftSyft/commits?author=mjjimenez" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="https://github.com/OpenMined/SwiftSyft/commits?author=mjjimenez" title="Documentation">📖</a></td>
    <td align="center"><a href="https://github.com/mamuleanu"><img src="https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/10297451?v=4" width="100px;" alt=""/><br /><sub><b>Madalin Mamuleanu</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/OpenMined/SwiftSyft/commits?author=mamuleanu" title="Code">💻</a></td>
  </tr>
</table>

<!-- markdownlint-enable -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->
<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:END -->

This project follows the [all-contributors](https://github.com/all-contributors/all-contributors) specification. Contributions of any kind welcome!
